feat(query builder): New data explorer (#18907)
newrelic/docs-website: src/content/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/query-builder/introduction-new-data-explorer.mdx

---
title: Introduction to the data explorer
tags:
  - Query your data
  - Explore and query data
  - Data explorer
metaDescription: 'The New Relic data explorer lets you run queries of your data without using NRQL-format queries'
redirects:
  - /docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/query-builder/introduction-query-builder/#query-from-anywhere

freshnessValidatedDate: never
---

> Navigate all your data visually using the <DNT>**query experience data explorer**</DNT> and without needing to know how to write [NRQL-format queries](/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/introduction-nrql-new-relics-query-language).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now explore all your data visually using the <DNT>**query experience data explorer**</DNT> without needing to know how to write [NRQL-format queries](/docs/query-your-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/get-started/introduction-nrql-new-relics-query-language).
```

Need to perform a more detailed search? Read how to [query your data](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/get-started/introduction-querying-new-relic-data/). If you haven't already, create your free New Relic account to start monitoring your data today.

> ## Why It Matters [#why-it-matters]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Understand query your data [#understand-query-buildler]
```

Reviewer: I think "why it matters" can be something people read by really quickly because it's more conceptual. this is a suggestion, but it's not a blocker :)

> ## Why it matters [#why-it-matters]

Reviewer: Let's update this h2 to be more specific.

Do you research the state of your systems? Do you need to plan resources, identify and respond to incidents, or troubleshoot faulty behaviors? The data explorer makes it easy to identify, fetch and visualize the data you are looking for through visual menus, without ever using NRQL or building queries.

> With the <DNT>**data explorer**</DNT>, you can access all data stored in the New Relic database (NRDB) in a quick, intuitive way. You can then select facet your queries using the attributes and filter down to the needed value.

Reviewer: Is it called "data explorer" or "Query your data"?

> Other things the data explorer view helps you do:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Other things the data explorer view helps you:
```

> - View data from different perspectives: from raw data to various visualizations that provide insights on evolution, distribution, and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* View data from different perspectives: from raw data to various visualizations that provide insights on evolution, distribution, and more.
```

Reviewer: We use `*`s to make unordered lists

- Drill down into data using filters.
- Add your searches to a dashboard.
- Understand how NRQL works: the Data Explorer demonstrates how queries are constructed.

> ### Types of Data You Can Explore

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Understand data types [#understand-data-types]
```

Author: Keeping the same heading for simplicity.

> In the context of Metrics and Events, "event" refers to all objects stored in the New Relic Database (NRDB). Metrics and Events allow you to explore:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the context of the metrics and events capability, "event" refers to all objects stored in the New Relic Database (NRDB). Metrics and Events allow you to explore:
```

> - [Dimensional metrics](/docs/data-apis/understand-data/new-relic-data-types/#dimensional-metrics) (the Metric data type).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Dimensional metrics](/docs/data-apis/understand-data/new-relic-data-types/#dimensional-metrics) (the Metric data type).
```

Reviewer: Update list to use *s over -s

* [Events](/docs/data-apis/understand-data/new-relic-data-types/#events-new-relic) (the Event data type).
* [Logs](/docs/logs/ui-data/use-logs-ui) (the Log data type).

> ## Exploring your data [#exploring-your-data]

Reviewer: We don't use -ing formations for h2s. Please change to active voice, eg "Explore your data"

> ## Exploring Your Data

Reviewer: Adding anchor tags to the headers. Also, we use sentence case for our headers, not snake case!

To access the Data Explorer, navigate to the bottom <DNT>**Query your data**</DNT> bar and click the <DNT>**Data Explorer**</DNT> icon.

> ### Using the Data Explorer

Reviewer: Add anchor tags

> ### Using the Data Explorer [#using-data-explorer]

Reviewer: Using -> Use

1. **Define the Scope**: Select the data type (metric, event, or log), the account, and the entities.
2. **Select the Time Range**: Use the time picker to define the time range for your query.
3. **Build Your Search**: Use the blocks on the left to browse the available data and construct your search. Blocks are searchable, and you can use the actions in the action menu to create and modify your query.

<img

>   title="Metrics and events view"

Reviewer: Lets update this title to reflect data explorer, not metrics and events

  alt="Data explorer view"
  src="/images/data-explorer.gif"
/>

> ### Components of the Data Explorer [#data-explorer-components]

Reviewer: We don't capitalilze capabiblities. Data Explorer -> data explorer
